Task: Deploy application in monolithic and microservices architecture.
Description: -
Task 1: For monolithic : 1 EC2 instance, deploy wordpress and MYSQL on the same 
instances.
Create a welcome page in wordpress that will be the homepage.
Step1: Login to AWS free tier account. Search for EC2 instance in the dashboard
Instance Step 2: Create one EC2.
Name: monolithec2-task1
AMI: Ubuntu
Instance Type: t2.micro
Key pair: monolith-key (new created)
Step 3: Allowed inbound traffic for SSH, HTTP/HTTPS (port 80 and 443) for WordPress 
access and port 3306 for MySQL access
Step 4: The EC2 Instance launched Successfully->Click on connect to further process.
Installed apache2 server on Ubuntu.
sudo apt install apache2
Now copy the public IP of the EC2 and paste on the new tab
The Apache2 Default page open means our wordpress is up and running successfully.
Installed MySql Server.
Sudo apt install mysql-server
Login to MySql Server
sudo mysql -u root
Change authentication plugin to mysql_native_password (Choose strong Password)
Create new database user for wordpress.
Create a database for wordpress.
Grant all Privileges on the database ‘wordpress’ to the newly created user.
on terminal type command as:
cd /tmp
wget https://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz
Extract the zip file.
Now WordPress is successfully installed.
ls
wordpress file contain index.html
Now copy the public IP of the EC2 and paste on the new tab as below,
http://<public-ip-of-ec2>/wordpress
go to next step and fill all details – database name, username & password.
Click on submit
wp-config.php error occur to fix it copy the code below.
on the terminal, inside wordpress folder-> create nano wp.config.php file and paste 
above copied code
Fill all the details to host/deploy your webpage.
Now install wordpress and Login with username & password.
see your first webpage is open successfully on the wordpress.

  
Task 2: For microservices: 2 EC2 instance, 1 for wordpress and 1 for MYSQL - Configure 
the necessary security group for the instances - EC2 instance type: t2-micro, AMI: ubuntu-* 
Create a welcome page in wordpress that will be the homepage.
Instance Step : Create two EC2 Instances.
AMI: Ubuntu.
Select mysqlinstance and copy the public ip address and connect through ssh.
Install MySql
Sudo apt update
sudo apt install mysql-server
Secure database server : Follow the prompts to set a root password, remove 
anonymous users, disallow remote root login, and remove test databases. 
1. Type Y to set a password, and type a secure password twice. 
2. Type Y to remove the anonymous user accounts. 
3. Type N to enable the remote root login. 
4. Type Y to remove the test database. 
5. Type Y to reload the privilege tables and save your changes.
Create user and database for wordpress
Sudo mysql secure installation
Sudo mysql -u root –p
mysql> CREATE DATABASE abhiwordpress;
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)
mysql> CREATE USER 'abhi_user'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'abhi@123';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON abhiwordpress.* TO 'abhi_user'@'%';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
Connect to the WordPress instance via SSH, then install required packages such as Apache, 
PHP, etc.
Once installed, download WordPress
The wp-config-sample.php file and rename the copy as wp-config.php to generate a fresh 
configuration file while preserving the original sample file
Edit the host, database name, user and password.
In the same file find the section called Authentication Unique Keys and Salts. 
Complete setup is now done, browse with your public IP. 






